Improve documentation of Presto Resource Groups (#20918)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/admin/resource-groups.rst

Any changes to the file require a restart of the Presto server to take effect.

Database-Based Resource Management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In a database-based resource manager, configuration information about the resource groups is stored in a relational
database. The database contains definitions of all resource groups and the rules to select them.
Unlike the file-based resource manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect
immediately and do not require a restart of the Presto server.

Both methods have their pros and cons. File-based resource management is simpler to set up but less flexible,
while database-based resource management is more complex to set up but offers more flexibility and dynamic changes.

File Resource Group Manager
---------------------------

The file resource group manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a JSON configuration file.
This file contains definitions of all resource groups and rules for selecting the appropriate resource group
for a given query.

To set up a file-based resource group manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.

> 2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``file`` using the following code example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In ``etc/resource-groups.properties``, set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``file`` using the following code example:
```

   .. code-block:: text

       resource-groups.configuration-manager=file

>        resource-groups.config-file=etc/resource-groups.json

Reviewer: Suggest deleting this second line of the etc/resource-groups.properties file example. In this step, we are showing the user only how to set the resource-groups.configuration-manager property to file.

In step 4, you should add a one-line code block containing the line 

``resource-groups.config-file=<file-path>``

> 3. Create a JSON file in etc folder named resource-groups.json. This file should contain the definitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a JSON file in etc folder named ``resource-groups.json``. This file should contain the definitions
```

   for the resource groups. Each resource group can specify things like the maximum memory, the

>    maximum queued queries, and the maximum running queries. For information on creating resource group definitions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   maximum queued queries, and the maximum running queries. 
   
   For information on creating resource group definitions,
```

I suggest adding a paragraph break here so the first "For information..." sentence displays as left-justified, making it easier for the reader to quickly find the link to the information they need. 

When you add the paragraph break, please be careful to keep the two "For information" sentences inside step 3.

   see `Resource Group Properties`_. For an example of a resource-groups.json file,
   see `File Resource Group Manager <resource-groups.html#id2>`_.

4. In the ``etc/resource-groups.properties`` file, add a line that specifies the location of the JSON file.
   Set the ``resource-groups.config-file`` property to ``<file_path>``, where ``<file_path>`` is the path to

>    the JSON file.

Reviewer: After this line, please add here the one-line code block containing the line

``resource-groups.config-file=<file-path>``

Please make sure that this code block is indented correctly to keep it as part of step 4, the same as you indented the code block in step 2 (lines 71-74).

Unlike the file-based resource manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect
immediately and do not require a restart of the Presto server.

Both methods have their pros and cons. File-based resource management is simpler to set up but less flexible,
while database-based resource management is more complex to set up but offers more flexibility and dynamic changes.

File Resource Group Manager
---------------------------

The file resource group manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a JSON configuration file.
This file contains definitions of all resource groups and rules for selecting the appropriate resource group
for a given query.

To set up a file-based resource group manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.

2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``file``.

3. Create a JSON file: This file should contain the definitions for the resource groups.
   Each resource group can specify things like the maximum memory, the maximum queued queries,
   and the maximum running queries. For information on creating resource group definitions,

>    see ``resources-groups-example.json`` file.

Reviewer: Suggest you link to the headings in this file where you provide the information the user needs to create the content of the resource-groups.json file.  For example, delete this sentence 
"For information on creating resource group definitions,
   see ``resources-groups-example.json`` file."
   
   and add something like this
   
   ```
   For information on creating resource group definitions,
   see `Resource Group Properties`_. 
   
   For an example of a resource-groups.json file, see `File Resource Group Manager <resource-groups.html#id2>`_. 
```

   
Does this suggestion make sense? I've added a screenshot of how these two suggested sentences look when I build it locally as part of Step 3. 
<img width="765" alt="Screenshot 2023-10-03 at 3 04 37 PM" src="https://github.com/prestodb/presto/assets/7013443/fcaae076-7f93-49ef-8e7c-de88966890c1">

Important note: I know those links aren't formatted the same, but that is how I managed to get them to build successfully as working links. If you can format those links differently that also work, please do so.

4. In the ``etc/resource-groups.properties`` file, add a line that specifies the location of the JSON file.
   Set the ``resource-groups.config-file`` property to ``<file_path>``, where ``<file_path>`` is the path to

>    the JSON file. For example of a resource-groups.json file, see ``resource-groups.json`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the JSON file. 
```

Suggest deleting the reference to the resource-groups.json file. This step is about working with etc/resource-groups.properties and pointing to resource-groups.json. In this step, the user doesn't need an example of the content of resource-groups.json, they only need to know the file path to resource-groups.json.

Both methods have their pros and cons. File-based resource management is simpler to set up but less flexible,
while database-based resource management is more complex to set up but offers more flexibility and dynamic changes.

File Resource Group Manager
---------------------------

The file resource group manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a JSON configuration file.
This file contains definitions of all resource groups and rules for selecting the appropriate resource group
for a given query.

To set up a file-based resource group manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.

2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``file``.

3. Create a JSON file: This file should contain the definitions for your resource groups.
   Each resource group can specify things like the maximum memory, the maximum queued queries,
   and the maximum running queries.

4. In the ``etc/resource-groups.properties`` file, add a line that specifies the location of your JSON file.
   Set the ``resource-groups.config-file`` property to ``<file_path>``, where ``<file_path>`` is the path to

>    your JSON file. The resource-groups.config-file is a configuration file used to define resource groups in Presto.

Reviewer: Does the sentence "The resource-groups.config-file is a configuration file used to define resource groups in Presto." add meaning for the reader here? Consider deleting the sentence.

>    Resource groups are a mechanism for managing resources in Presto. For example of a resource-groups.json file, follow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For example of a resource-groups.json file, see
```
Suggest deleting "Resource groups are a mechanism for managing resources in Presto. ", unless you feel that this sentence adds meaning for the reader. 

Also, should ``resource-groups.json`` be formatted as code?

>    resources-groups-example.json.

Reviewer: This `resources-groups-example.json` appears to be intended as a link. Please format it as a link to the section, heading, or file.

> .. code-block:: text

Reviewer: Consider indenting this code block so that it is part of step 4.

    resource-groups.configuration-manager=file
    resource-groups.config-file=etc/resource-groups.json

> 5. Restart the Presto server. The new resource groups will take effect after the restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Restart the Presto server. The new resource groups take effect immediately after the restart.
```

Minor text suggestion. Please review if my revised words are correct, and they mean what you want to say here.

Database Resource Group Manager
-------------------------------

The database resource group manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a relational database.

To set up a database-based resource group manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.

2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``db``.

3. Set up a relational database: The database should be accessible by Presto.
   It will be used to store the configurations of your resource groups.

4. Create tables for resource groups and selection rules: You need to create tables in the
   database that will store the definitions of your resource groups and the rules for selecting
   the appropriate resource group for a given query.

> 5. To specify the database in the Presto configuration, add a line in etc/resource-groups.properties that

Reviewer: Please format the file names and other items requiring code formatting in this step.

   specifies the JDBC URL of your database: resource-groups.config-db-url = <jdbc_url>, where <jdbc_url> is the
   JDBC URL of your database.

> Note : The supported databases are MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle.

Reviewer: Suggest indenting this Note: line as part of step 5.

With the Database Resource Group Manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect immediately
and do not require a restart of the Presto server. This allows for more flexibility and
dynamic changes to the resource group configurations.

> etc/resource-groups.properties should be similar to this following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``etc/resource-groups.properties`` should be similar to this following example:
```

Also, I suggest moving this line and the code block example to after the Note and before "With the Database Resource Group Manager, ". This code block will not need to be indented when it is moved because it is not part of a step.

database. The database contains definitions of all resource groups and the rules to select them.
Unlike the file-based resource manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect
immediately and do not require a restart of the Presto server.

Both methods have their pros and cons. File-based resource management is simpler to set up but less flexible,
while database-based resource management is more complex to set up but offers more flexibility and dynamic changes.

File Resource Group Manager
---------------------------

The file resource group manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a JSON configuration file.
This file contains definitions of all resource groups and rules for selecting the appropriate resource group
for a given query.

To set up a file-based resource group manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.

2. In ``etc/resource-groups.properties``, set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``file``
   using the following code example:

   .. code-block:: text

       resource-groups.configuration-manager=file

> 3. Create a JSON file in etc folder named ``resource-groups.json``. This file should contain the definitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a JSON file in ``etc`` named ``resource-groups.json``. This file should contain the definitions
```

   for the resource groups. Each resource group can specify things like the maximum memory, the
   maximum queued queries, and the maximum running queries.

   For information on creating resource group definitions, see `Resource Group Properties`_.
   For an example of a resource-groups.json file, see `File Resource Group Manager <resource-groups.html#id2>`_.

> 4. In the ``etc/resource-groups.properties`` file, add a line that specifies the location of the JSON file using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In ``etc/resource-groups.properties``, add a line that specifies the location of the JSON file using the
```

   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property name
     - Description
     - Default value
   * - ``resource-groups.config-db-url``
     - Database URL to load configuration from.
     - ``none``
   * - ``resource-groups.config-db-user``
     - Database user to connect with.
     - ``none``
   * - ``resource-groups.config-db-password``
     - Password for database user to connect with.
     - ``none``
   * - ``resource-groups.max-refresh-interval``
     - The maximum time period for which the cluster will continue to accept
       queries after refresh failures, causing configuration to become stale.
     - ``1h``
   * - ``resource-groups.refresh-interval``
     -  How often the cluster reloads from the database
     - ``1s``
   * - ``resource-groups.exact-match-selector-enabled``
     - Setting this flag enables usage of an additional
       ``exact_match_source_selectors`` table to configure resource group
       selection rules defined exact name based matches for source, environment
       and query type. By default, the rules are only loaded from the
       ``selectors`` table, with a regex-based filter for ``source``, among
       other filters.
     - ``false``

Resource Groups Table

> ---------------------

Reviewer 2: nit: sub section of `Database Resource Group Manager`
```suggestion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> 

Reviewer 2: It would be good to also include the table name here.

``resource_group_id``: The ID of the resource group.

``name``: The name of the resource group.

``soft_memory_limit``: The maximum amount of memory that the resource group can use.

``max_queued``: The maximum number of queued queries that the resource group can have.

``hard_concurrency_limit``: The maximum number of queries that the resource group can run concurrently.

Selectors Table

> ---------------

Reviewer 2: nit: sub section of `Database Resource Group Manager`
```suggestion
---------------
^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> 

Reviewer 2: It would be good to also include the table name here. (`selectors`)

* ``maxQueued`` (required): The maximum number of queries that can be queued in the resource group.
  If this limit is reached, new queries will be rejected.

* ``hardCpuLimit`` (optional): maximum amount of CPU time this
  group may use in a period.

* ``softMemoryLimit`` (required): The maximum amount of memory that the resource group can use.
  This can be specified in absolute terms (like "10GB") or as a percentage of the total available
  memory (like "50%").

* ``hardConcurrencyLimit`` (required): The maximum number of queries that the resource group
  can run concurrently.

* ``softConcurrencyLimit`` (optional): The soft limit on the number of concurrent queries.
  If this limit is exceeded, the scheduler will try to prevent new queries from starting,
  but it won't force running queries to stop.

* ``softCpuLimit`` (optional): maximum amount of CPU time this
  group may use in a period (see ``cpuQuotaPeriod``), before a penalty is applied to
  the maximum number of running queries. ``hardCpuLimit`` must also be specified.

* ``schedulingPolicy`` (optional): The policy that determines how queries are scheduled within the resource group.

>   This can be set to ``fair``, ``weighted``, ``weighted_fair`` or ``query_priority``. May be one of four values:

Reviewer 3: How about rephrasing it to - This can be set to one of the four values ``fair``, ``weighted``, ``weighted_fair`` or ``query_priority`` :

  - ``weighted``: queued queries are selected stochastically in proportion to their priority,
    specified via the ``query_priority`` {doc} ``session property </sql/set-session>``. Sub groups are selected
    to start new queries in proportion to their ``schedulingWeight``.
  - ``query_priority``: all sub-groups must also be configured with ``query_priority``.
    Queued queries are selected strictly according to their priority.

* ``schedulingWeight`` (optional): The weight for the resource group when the parent group uses the ``weighted``
  scheduling policy. A higher weight means that the group gets a larger share of the parent group's
  resources.

* ``jmxExport`` (optional):  If set to ``true``, the statistics of the resource group will be exported via JMX.
  Defaults to ``false``.

* ``subGroups`` (optional): list of sub-groups.A list of sub-groups within the resource group.
  Each sub-group can have its own set of properties.

.. _scheduleweight-example:

Scheduling Weight Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Schedule weighting is a method of assigning a priority to a resource. Sub-groups
with a higher scheduling weight are given higher priority. For example, to

> ensure timely execution of scheduled pipelines queries, weight them higher than

Reviewer 3: scheduled pipelines queries -> scheduled pipeline queries

it does not cause running queries to fail; instead new queries become queued.
A resource group may have sub-groups or may accept queries, but may not do both.

In PrestoDB, Resource Groups are a powerful tool for managing query execution and resource allocation.

> They allow administrators to control how resources are allocated and utilized on a Presto cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They allow administrators to control how resources are allocated and utilized on a Presto cluster.

```

Reviewer: A line break needs to be present before the text of a header. When I build this page locally Resource Group Limits, and its formatting line of dashes underneath, looks like this. 

<img width="950" alt="Screenshot 2023-09-20 at 1 33 18 PM" src="https://github.com/prestodb/presto/assets/7013443/99d8c69c-7d51-497f-93b3-fdfbc1cfcd76">

Please build locally and review the formatting.

Reviewer: Fixed, thanks!

Resource Usage Limits
---------------------

Resource Groups can set limits on resource usage, such as CPU time, memory usage, or total
number of queries. This is particularly useful in multi-tenant environments where you want to ensure that no single user

> or query monopolizes the system resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or query monopolizes the system resources.

```

Reviewer: A line break needs to be present before the text of a header.

Reviewer: Fixed, thanks!

Resource Consumption
--------------------

A query belongs to a single resource group, and it consumes resources from that group,
as well as its parent groups. If a resource group runs out of a certain resource, it does not cause running

> queries to fail. Instead, new queries will be queued until resources become available again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
queries to fail. Instead, new queries will be queued until resources become available again.

```

Reviewer: A line break needs to be present before the text of a header.

Reviewer: Fixed, thanks!

The configuration file is loaded and used at the start of the Presto server.
Any changes to the file require a restart of the Presto server to take effect.

Database-Based Resource Management
----------------------------------

In a database-based resource manager, configuration information about the resource groups is stored in a relational
database. The database contains definitions of all resource groups and the rules to select them.
Unlike the file-based resource manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect
immediately and do not require a restart of the Presto server.

Both methods have their pros and cons. File-based resource management is simpler to set up but less flexible,
while database-based resource management is more complex to set up but offers more flexibility and dynamic changes.

File Resource Group Manager
---------------------------

The File Resource Group Manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a JSON configuration file.
This file contains definitions of all resource groups and rules for selecting the appropriate resource group
for a given query.

To set up a File-based Resource Group Manager:

> 1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.
```

2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``file``.

> 3. Create a JSON file with the definitions of your resource groups and rules.

Reviewer: I suggest that you 
1. replace these steps 3 and 4 with your steps 1 and 2 from lines 76-82.
2. Step 3 ("Restart the Presto server:" in lines 84-85 becomes the new step 5. 
3. Delete line 74 ("Here’s a brief guide on how to set it up:") as no longer necessary.

4. Specify the location of this file in the Presto server's configuration file
   under the property ``resource-groups.config-file``.

> 5. To complete the setup, follow the steps in File Resource Group Manager.

Reviewer: Where is this step instructing the reader to go? Please review your text for a logical flow.

Each resource group can specify things like the maximum memory, the maximum queued queries,
and the maximum running queries.

2. Specify the file in the Presto configuration: In the ``etc`` directory of your Presto installation,
create a file named ``resource-groups.properties``. In this file, add a line that specifies the location of
your JSON file: ``resource-groups.config-file = <file_path>``, where ``<file_path>`` is the path to your JSON file.

3. Restart the Presto server: After creating the JSON file and pointing to it in the Presto configuration,
restart your Presto server. The new resource groups will take effect after the restart.

.. code-block:: text

    resource-groups.configuration-manager=file
    resource-groups.config-file=etc/resource-groups.json

Database Resource Group Manager
-------------------------------
The Database Resource Group Manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a relational database.

To set up a Database-based Resource Group Manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``
2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``db``.

> 3. Set up a relational database that Presto can access.

Reviewer: Similar to my previous comment at line 69, I suggest you combine these steps into a single set of steps.

Here are the key properties that can be set for a Resource Group

* ``name`` (required): The name of the resource group. This is a mandatory property.

* ``maxQueued`` (required): The maximum number of queries that can be queued in the resource group.
  If this limit is reached, new queries will be rejected.

* ``hardCpuLimit`` (optional): maximum amount of CPU time this
  group may use in a period.

* ``softMemoryLimit`` (required): The maximum amount of memory that the resource group can use.
  This can be specified in absolute terms (like "10GB") or as a percentage of the total available
  memory (like "50%").

* ``hardConcurrencyLimit`` (required): The maximum number of queries that the resource group
  can run concurrently.

* ``softConcurrencyLimit`` (optional): The soft limit on the number of concurrent queries.
  If this limit is exceeded, the scheduler will try to prevent new queries from starting,
  but it won't force running queries to stop.

* ``softCpuLimit`` (optional): maximum amount of CPU time this
  group may use in a period (see ``cpuQuotaPeriod``), before a penalty is applied to
  the maximum number of running queries. ``hardCpuLimit`` must also be specified.

> * ``schedulingPolicy`` (optional): The policy that determines how queries are scheduled within the resource group.

Reviewer: You fixed this vertical line indent here! Thanks!

The ``engineering`` subgroup has a scheduling weight of 3, and the ``marketing`` subgroup has a
scheduling weight of 1. In this setup, the engineering subgroup will get 75% of the
parent group's resources (because 3 is 75% of the total weight of 4), and the "marketing" subgroup will
get 25% of the parent group's resources (because 1 is 25% of the total weight of 4).

Schedule weighting allows you to prioritize certain subgroups over others in terms of resource allocation.
In this example, queries from the ``engineering`` subgroup will be prioritized over queries
from the ``marketing`` subgroup.

.. literalinclude:: schedule-weight-example.json
    :language: text

Selector Rules
--------------

Here are the key components of selector rules in PrestoDB:

* ``group`` (required): The group these queries will run in.

* ``user`` (optional): This is a regular expression that matches the user who is submitting the query.

* ``userGroup`` (optional): Regex to match against every user group the user belongs to.

* ``source`` (optional): This matches the source of the query, which is typically the
  application submitting the query.

> * ``queryType`` (optional): String to match against the type of the query submitted:

Reviewer: You fixed this vertical line indent here! Thanks!

it does not cause running queries to fail; instead new queries become queued.
A resource group may have sub-groups or may accept queries, but may not do both.

In PrestoDB, Resource Groups are a powerful tool for managing query execution and resource allocation.
They allow administrators to control how resources are allocated and utilized on a Presto cluster.

Resource Usage Limits
---------------------

Resource Groups can set limits on resource usage, such as CPU time, memory usage, or total
number of queries. This is particularly useful in multi-tenant environments where you want to ensure that no single user
or query monopolizes the system resources.

Resource Consumption
--------------------

A query belongs to a single resource group, and it consumes resources from that group,
as well as its parent groups. If a resource group runs out of a certain resource, it does not cause running
queries to fail. Instead, new queries will be queued until resources become available again.

Sub-Groups and Query Acceptance
-------------------------------

Sub-groups allow for hierarchical resource allocation, where each sub-group can have its own resource limits and

> queueing policies.A resource group that accepts queries directly is a leaf group, and it executes queries using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
queueing policies. A resource group that accepts queries directly is a leaf group, and it executes queries using
```

its allocated resources.

The resource groups and associated selection rules are configured by a manager, which is pluggable.
Presto resource management can be done in two ways:

* File-Based Resource Management

> * Database-Based Resource Management

Reviewer 2: how about having the following `File-Based Resource Management` and `Database-Based Resource Management` sections as the sub-items here directly? Just change them to `^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^` and remove these two entries?

Database-Based Resource Management
----------------------------------

In a database-based resource manager, configuration information about the resource groups is stored in a relational
database. The database contains definitions of all resource groups and the rules to select them.
Unlike the file-based resource manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect
immediately and do not require a restart of the Presto server.

Both methods have their pros and cons. File-based resource management is simpler to set up but less flexible,
while database-based resource management is more complex to set up but offers more flexibility and dynamic changes.

File Resource Group Manager
---------------------------

The File Resource Group Manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a JSON configuration file.
This file contains definitions of all resource groups and rules for selecting the appropriate resource group
for a given query.

To set up a File-based Resource Group Manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.

2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``file``.

> 3. Create a JSON file: This file should contain the definitions for your resource groups.

Reviewer: It appears that you added some information about the JSON file in step 4, which is about setting the etc/resource-groups.properties to the file path of the JSON file. 

Before they get to step 4 and set the file path to the JSON file, you should tell the reader - here in step 3 - 
* where the JSON file should be created
* what file name is recommended for it, and 
* what the content of the JSON file should be. 

Without this information the reader can't be expected to create a JSON file. 

Here, in step 3, create the JSON file, please explain to the reader what the name of the JSON file could be, a suggested location for where they should create it, and the link to what the content of this file should be? Something like "For information on creating resource group definitions, see HEADING."

   Each resource group can specify things like the maximum memory, the maximum queued queries,
   and the maximum running queries.

4. Specify the file in the Presto configuration: In the ``etc`` directory of your Presto installation,
   create a file named ``resource-groups.properties``. In this file, add a line that specifies the location of
   your JSON file: ``resource-groups.config-file = <file_path>``, where ``<file_path>`` is the path to your JSON file.

> 5. Restart the Presto server: After creating the JSON file and pointing to it in the Presto configuration,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    restart your Presto server. The new resource groups will take effect after the restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   5. Restart the Presto server. The new resource groups will take effect after the restart.
```

> 

Reviewer: Suggest moving this code block example of ``etc/resource-groups.properties`` into step 4, with an introductory "Your ``etc/resource-groups.properties`` should now be similar to this following example:" - however you want to explain this code block. 

I suggest moving it to before step 5 Restart the Presto server because the user should have their file be similar to this example before the restart, yes?

.. code-block:: text

    resource-groups.configuration-manager=file
    resource-groups.config-file=etc/resource-groups.json

Database Resource Group Manager
-------------------------------
The Database Resource Group Manager in PrestoDB is a way to manage resources using a relational database.

To set up a Database-based Resource Group Manager:

1. Create the file ``etc/resource-groups.properties``.

2. Set the ``resource-groups.configuration-manager`` property to ``db``.

3. Set up a relational database: The database should be accessible by Presto.
   It will be used to store the configurations of your resource groups.

4. Create tables for resource groups and selection rules: You need to create tables in the
   database that will store the definitions of your resource groups and the rules for selecting
   the appropriate resource group for a given query.

> 5. Specify the database in the Presto configuration: In the ``etc`` directory of your Presto installation,

Reviewer: You already instructed the user to create this file in step 1, so you don't need to ask them to create the same file again. Suggest something like 

"To specify the database in the Presto configuration, add a line in ``etc/resource-groups.properties`` that specifies the JDBC URL of your database: ``resource-groups.config-db-url = <jdbc_url>``, where ``<jdbc_url>`` is the JDBC URL of your database.

   create a file named ``resource-groups.properties``. In this file, add a line that specifies
   the JDBC URL of your database: ``resource-groups.config-db-url = <jdbc_url>``, where ``<jdbc_url>`` is the
   JDBC URL of your database.

> The database resource group manager loads the configuration from a relational database. With the

Reviewer: This paragraph is good! Suggest deleting the first sentence "The database resource group manager loads the configuration from a relational database. "

because the second sentence "With the Database Resource Group Manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect immediately and do not require a restart of the Presto server." 

explains to the reader why there is not "Restart the server" step here - they don't need to restart.

Database Resource Group Manager, changes to the configuration in the database take effect immediately
and do not require a restart of the Presto server. This allows for more flexibility and
dynamic changes to the resource group configurations.

> Note : The supported databases are MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle.

Reviewer: This note should be part of, or immediately after, step 5.

> .. code-block:: text

Reviewer: Suggest adding something like an introductory "Your etc/resource-groups.properties should be similar to this following example:" - however you want to explain this code block.

    resource-groups.configuration-manager=db
    resource-groups.config-db-url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/resource_groups
    resource-groups.config-db-user=username
    resource-groups.config-db-password=password

Here's an example of what the tables in your database might look like:

Resource Groups Table

> ---------------------

Reviewer 2: nit: sub-section to `Database Resource Group Manager`. change to `^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^`

``resource_group_id``: The ID of the resource group.

``name``: The name of the resource group.

``soft_memory_limit``: The maximum amount of memory that the resource group can use.

``max_queued``: The maximum number of queued queries that the resource group can have.

``hard_concurrency_limit``: The maximum number of queries that the resource group can run concurrently.

Selectors Table

> ---------------

Reviewer 2: nit: sub-section to `Database Resource Group Manager`. change to `^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^`

``resource_group_id``: The ID of the resource group that this selector applies to.

``user_regex``: A regex pattern that matches the user names for this selector.

``source_regex``: A regex pattern that matches the source names for this selector.

Database Resource Group Manager Properties

> ------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: nit: sub-section to `Database Resource Group Manager`. change to `^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^`

  of CPU resources that a container can use in a specified period.

Please note that the exact implementation and naming of these properties can
vary between different container runtimes and orchestration systems.

Providing Selector Properties
-----------------------------

The source name can be set as follows:

* CLI: use the ``--source`` option.

* JDBC driver when used in client apps: add the ``source`` property to the
  connection configuration and set the value when using a Java application that
  uses the JDBC Driver.

* JDBC driver used with Java programs: add a property with the key ``source``
  and the value on the ``Connection`` instance as shown in :ref:`the example
  <jdbc-java-connection>`.

Client tags can be set as follows:

* CLI: use the ``--client-tags`` option.

* JDBC driver when used in client apps: add the ``clientTags`` property to the
  connection configuration and set the value when using a Java application that
  uses the JDBC Driver.

* JDBC driver used with Java programs: add a property with the key
  ``clientTags`` and the value on the ``Connection`` instance as shown in
  :ref:`the example <jdbc-parameter-reference>`.

Example

> ^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: nit: could this be `---` and the following `File Resource Group Manager` and `Database Resource Group Manager` change to `^^^` ?
